Wanda & Me - Act 1
I wonder if Wanda will end up editing this because it’s all flashing too quickly like accounts people have just before death. Like I’m playing myself in a film. Details crystalize, words synthesize. Conversations can almost be seen, images written on the air, and even punctuated properly. The long blond face of the driver becomes a screen for forgotten events that occurred in early childhood. I trust them somehow, probably because they are not flattering, which makes them more believable if less palatable to my vanity, and I remember the way I told each of these stories, altering them slightly when I appeared crazy or selfish or vain. 
I turn to look, and Wanda is squeezed in between me and the car door. I can’t always sense if she’s there. Even now, she surprises me, and the only plausible explanation is that it is intentional on her part. Sometimes she pinches me or speaks so I know where the voice is coming from and turn discreetly to look because I worry they will think me crazy. Eccentric is one thing, but out and out crazy is not a good umbrella to live under.
Wanda emerged when I had to pee. Wanda rose from the toy-box. Both times, I was desperate, once sad, the other lonely and angry. Both times she came when I really needed her. Then disappeared for a period.
Is it important to remember these worn red leather seats or the kind stranger driving with the ratty blond hair whose face could morph any minute like so many have before him? He’s friendly now, and he did give me the knife. And why would he? He knows us no better than we know him, but there are always so many mysteries to the way people turn. I look at Wanda and she’s dead serious and I have rarely seen her like this. The blond likes to talk, seems lonely on this highway, and we still have 80 miles before he has to turn off, or says he has to turn off and leave us in the dark on this highway. He punches the stereo on to a strange song about Zachariah. 
 
I met her twice before she came to stay. Like she had made up her mind.


Ch 1  The Toy-box 
Somehow I knew the big wooden box with the red ribbon was mine even before I saw my name printed on the tag. It was big enough to fit a baby camel or a donkey like the ones I asked for from Illustrated Stories of the Bible, but maybe they had gotten me and Xtine mixed up and it was that awful walking doll from the Sears Wishbook.
“How long has the box been here?” I asked, worried it would be scared or lonely, waiting for me to open the lid, so I ripped the ribbon off, thrilled, because what else would fit into a box that size?
Mom stood in the doorway, looking excited. “Do you like it? she asked, which was stupid because I hadn’t looked inside. But when I opened it, the box was empty.  I blinked, thinking this was one of dad’s jokes. Maybe I missed a clue for some sort of new Christmas game, like an Easter egg hunt.
“It’s a toybox,“ she headed toward me from the doorway, “handmade.” I must have been staring with my mouth open like Xtine said I did when she called me a moron. Mom tied her robe, shut the hinged lid and stared at me with this big dumb smile. “All your toys will fit inside, so you’ll never lose Wuffie again.” When I didn’t answer, she sat on the box and moved her hand up and down in the air. “See, you can even sit and do your coloring,” like that was supposed to mean something. I began to cry which was something I never did. I had the meanest parents.
Then Mom got that worried expression, like she was confused, leaned down and put her arm around me. “Oh dear. We’ll go to the store later and you can pick out whatever you want…but tomorrow, because all the stores are closed for Christmas,” like it finally dawned on her how awful it was to get a big empty box for Christmas.
I didn’t say anything, just got up and left to see if Brownie, our giant orange cat with the chewed ear, had come back. The garage was empty and I thought of going out in the cold to look for him, but didn’t have shoes or a sweater on and I didn’t want to pass Mom on the way to my room. Instead, I waited until the noise from the living room died down, because you could hear everything in that creaky old house. Then I tiptoed to my room because I didn’t want to talk to anyone, especially Mom.
The box was in the center of the room like it had taken over and it made me angry all over again, so when Mom called me from the kitchen, I slid down the hall to the bathroom in my socks and pulled the shower curtains open to one side. I knew how to hide standing up behind the thick plastic folds, and was so good at staying super still, they never found me. I wanted them to think I was lost or had run away so they would know how horrible they were.  Mom’s voice got louder as she called my name, opening and closing all three doors down the hallway. When she yelled, “Ted, are you downstairs?” I knew she was really worried because she didn’t like bothering Dad doing TV repairs in the creepy basement.
When I slid from behind the curtain and sat on the toilet to think, I heard a gentle voice call my name.  C’mon, the voice was so light and melodic, I got up to see where it was coming from. I heard a soft laugh, egging me back into my room, as if we had known each other forever, like we had an instant secret bond. I knew it came from inside the box so I tiptoed over and when I opened it, she was lying flat inside, hands crossed over her chest, her face white as if she had just died. Then she sat up and crawled out. “I’ve awoken from the dead,” she said, so dramatically it made me laugh.
She looked like me, only smarter.
I knew she had seen me sit on the toilet and I didn’t care. We both thought it was funny even though I knew no one else would see it that way.
 You feel better, she said. It wasn’t a question. I nodded and she looked away, with the amused little smile on her face I would come to know so well.
She wanted me to be happy and that’s what I came to feel I owed her. At the time it seemed such a small thing. She did everything for me, but by the end I understood it to be the greatest thing you could ask of anyone. When you grant someone the power to make you happy, you have to let them make you happy. If you don’t play along they’ll know they caused your sadness, which is the worst thing of all. Only the cruelest people cause damage to someone who loves them
Besides, it was never a good thing to make Wanda angry.
She said, How do you feel now? That’s a rhetorical question.
“Wonderful,” I said, even though at five years old, I didn’t know what rhetorical meant. But I was sure I was happy in that way too. I was filled with wonder for the help she gave me and I wanted her to know it, hoping she would stay with me all day then overnight when I fell asleep in that creepy room with a huge crack in the window that had been glued back together and whistled when the wind blew in a certain direction. Later I came to want the sound because whenever I heard it Wanda appeared so the eeriness actually became a comfort to me.
What did you say, she asked me.
“When?” I asked, hoping I had the right answer for her.
When you found me in the box.
“Just now?” I asked. “I felt good. I felt ok.”
That’s not what you first said.
I prodded the crevices of my mind looking for the right word so I didn’t disappoint her.
No worries, she said and again that soft chuckle and half turn away from me. And the pressure I felt disappeared.
“I said, wonderful. I said I felt wonderful.” It embarrassed me to speak this way. We were protestants, reactionaries against the bliss the Catholics lived with. With all their angels and incense and chants and pointy gold caps. We didn’t gush, and Dad used to say we are protest - ants, something he was proud of.  But she looked like she expected to hear more from me.
I wanted to ask what her name was, but was afraid that would make her too real. Somehow I knew if I questioned her too deeply, she might disappear, so I didn’t.
You know what my name is, she said, staring at me full on, not a bit embarrassed by the displays we were both exhibiting, like they were necessary and private and real. Like when you make a pledge to your friend and call her your best friend and you both know it and rarely have to restate the sentiment.
“Wonderful,“ I said, and she smiled rewarding me for my bravery.
Slow. Say it slow.
“Won… der…” I stopped, and then I knew. “Wanda,” I said, “your name is Wanda,” and she never answered, just stared at me with the closest look to gratitude I ever remember her showing.
Then she nodded and disappeared.
 
Even though Wanda came out to eat turkey with us, I couldn’t look at either of my parents. At the dinner table, a box in the foiled expensive Christmas paper sat on my plate. Mom pointed to it, “For you,” she said, a sad hopeful smile on her face. It was a present meant for my cousin, Donna, whose birthday was the day after Christmas. I had seen her wrap it, complaining about how expensive it was. 
“I hate Barbies,” I said,
 “Well, okay. Why waste it, I’ll give it to your cousin, Donna.”
When we went to the store the next day she told me to pick out whatever I wanted, so I found the thing she liked least in the store. Two trolls, LuLu and Mitzi. Each was about three inches high and one had platinum hair three times her height and the other, Lou-Lou, had long brown hair. They didn’t care that they were ugly, they smiled all the time like they wanted to be friends and their little arms were always spread open like they always wanted to hug Wanda and me. Wanda was delighted to see them, and mom got them both so she must’ve felt bad about the stupid box.
At the cash, she said, “Now I want you to use the box. Promise?”
Don’t answer, Wanda said, and we walked home mostly in silence, but mom was determined to make me like it. She bought stencils and said we would write my name on it, so I wrote ME everywhere and they both thought this was funny but in a mean way. ME ME ME ME ME in red and black felt markers and I refused to let mom paint over it or do what she called decoupage on the top so it sat there in the middle of the room, empty and more desecrated by the day. Sometimes Wanda would push it against the door so no one could get in the room and I liked that she knew how to get even with everyone in a way that let them know it was really their fault.
And later, for months after Christmas mom would put my toys in the stupid box and as soon as she left, Wanda and me took them out and tossed them all over the room.
Once, instead of yelling at me, she asked me why and I said, “because I like knowing where everything is.” And Wanda thought that was a brilliant answer because it was smart but mostly because it wasn’t true.
 
Chapter 2  When I was Mary
In the hallowed corridors of Our Lady’s elementary school, we moved slowly, sticking close to the walls, head down, while the nuns floated through the aisle center, sure-footed despite their fantastical outfits, their old faces scrubbed of artifice hidden in the shadows of the headgear. As we passed, we excused ourselves, probably for placing them in danger of brushing against the corporeal world.  I forget exactly what we murmured, maybe, “excuse me sister,” but I knew not to look up. Wanda thought I hated this level of control, but she was wrong. That hyper-formality called out to my love of ceremony. Even then I knew to save rebellion for when it would count. The ordered universe of Our Lady’s elementary girl’s school was taught by nuns in traditional garb. I loved the nuns, especially Madame LeBreton, who taught Catechism, my favorite subject. I always understood what was required of me and relished the drama and solemnity around every little thing in that universe of symbol and form.
I identified with the beatific righteous Mary and was certain I was her childhood twin. All Marys in those days, particularly Eastern European Marys, were blue-eyed brunettes. No extremes. Not a dark skin among them. But to be fair, no blondes either. Selfless, incidentally beautiful, they were wise beyond their years. 
Each of us was handed a ready-made inner life that could be delivered on cue at a moment’s notice. I had no real concept of sin, but thought it exotic and important and I knew I had to drum some up every Friday on confession day. So, I made up numbers. Forgive me father for I have sinned. I lied to my mother four times. I didn’t do my homework eight times. Only much later did I realize there were only five possible homework days in a week.
It annoyed me when Father Battle didn’t respond with anything better than “say six Hail Marys,” etc. So, I made things up to get his attention. “Spiders crawl over my arm at night.” Nothing, so I embellished, “they tunnel under my fingernails and come out through my wrist in the morning.”  I waited, but not a sigh or even a breath intake. Was he listening? 
“Two Hail Marys and four Our Fathers every day for five days.”  
So next time I said, “Forgive me, Father, for I have sinned.”
“Yes, my child.”  
“I have a confession to make. I am an angel who flies over your house at night.”
FatherTwo Hail Marys and one Our Father.”
“He didn’t say anything,” I complained to Wanda.
That’s because he doesn’t realize you one-upped him on the spiritual plane. He might be a priest, but you and I are angels. And we flitted around the room, arms out like airplanes. I loved that Wanda gave me permission not to answer to anyone except her, of course. I don’t think I wanted him to answer to me; I just hated anyone having authority over me. Only after many years do I notice his grace. No punishment, not a single extra Hail Mary, for my obvious lie. But somewhere, I wondered what really mattered.
My mother made my first communion dress out of white eyelet. She was cursed with good taste, so no crinolines or satin, but the shine on my white patent leather shoes and the veil somewhat made up for the lack of glamor. I have a clear memory of Madame LeBreton stilling the procession of us six-year-old girls on our way to the altar, and saying, “Now all you little girls, I want you to think about the sacrament, not how pretty you look in your new dress.” I gasped because I knew then that she could read my mind. 
Wanda rarely came to school with me, which was probably why I got such good marks. Still, she knew I loved Catechism. I was always Mary because everybody loved her best and most important of all was we got to live with all the baby animals, and they followed us everywhere and we all slept together at night. But no matter how often I pled Mom refused to get me a camel and got really mad when dad promised me one for Christmas. I stopped believing him because one time I caught her laughing about it. Then I knew for sure they were both making fun of me because she didn’t do it often, not like dad. When she saw my face, she said, “How about a goldfish instead?”
“Or guppies,” Dad said, so that’s how I got a hamster. They said it was a compromise between a camel and a guppy.
I made tunnels in my bedsheets for Perry to burrow at night, so sometimes I fell asleep on the floor because I didn’t know where he was. Usually, he returned to his cage if we left food for him. So when he was gone for a few days, we looked everywhere. I even cut open the hole he had made in Wuffie’s leg because he liked to take stuffing out to make nests. Poor Wuffie got victimized by Perry even though he was a big, fierce wolf. Perry liked to hunt at night, so I left a trail of Smarties on the floor that led to his cage, but he wouldn’t fall for it. “I guess he got out,” is all Mom said. I was terrified of sitting or stepping on him. On the second night I got the huge flashlight from downstairs and set the alarm for midnight because all the books I read made a big deal about midnight and I liked the way the word sounded. I kept the bedroom door open because the hinge creaked, and I wanted to be able to sneak out without waking anyone up. I aimed the flashlight at the floor because my worst fear was stepping on Perry. Then, I walked to the bathroom quietly, thinking he might be thirsty. I aimed an arc of light at the baseboard and up the wall and shrieked when I saw a second shadow. Wanda said, Shhh, you’ll wake them up and her shadow was bigger than mine when I aimed it a second time. Then maybe she joined me or disappeared. I wasn’t sure which, but there was only a single shadow on the wall. I stubbed my toe, and Mom said, “Who’s there?” in that thin wispy voice. Then Dad got up and came out and his eyes were red.
“Be careful.” He tried to switch the light on, but the bulb must have been burned because it didn’t light. He grabbed the flashlight, and both shadows were back again. “Who’s there?” 
I said, “Me.”
“Who’s behind you?” and Mom said, “What do you mean? She’s alone.” Wanda split from my shadow and made lewd hand gestures and wouldn’t stop. Dad yelled, and Mom said, “What is wrong with you?”
Wanda said. He’s her, and he was caught in the sink his little paws slipping on the top of the drain his bottom legs below and dad pulled him out and I yelled, “be careful,” and he said “I am,” but I was talking to Wanda who loved to torture me whenever she thought I loved something more than I loved her even if it was just for a minute. Even a hamster. Poor little Perry was exhausted, and that night I thought he might die, but he was ok, and he didn’t even want to eat or drink, just curled up in my neck and it was the first time ever I heard a hamster purr.
Ch 3  We Always Had Cats
We always had cats; they were everywhere. The first one was named Brownie. He was a bigheaded, orange-striped boy who disappeared for days on end into the field across the street in (name of town). After a period he would trudge home, and allow us to fuss over him as he ate great mounds of whatever food we placed in his bowl, then he'd sleep for days on end. His ear was half bitten off; he limped because of a thorn in his paw and a badly set bone after a break. After a week or so he would stare at the door, then go back to sleep on a towel we placed near the door so he could keep watch on everyone’s comings and goings. Then the grooming would begin, incessantly biting off his nails, chewing and loudly spitting the old nail sheaths out and sharpening his claws on a beat up chair. Now he slept by the window, getting in everyone’s way, and the pacing began.  He’d circle our feet when we went to the door.
“Don’t let him out, it’s getting cold outside,” and we’d all agree it was better to keep him in. He wasn’t neutered because Dad said he thought that was cruel, but I thought we just didn’t even think about it until much later. Fate stepped in when we stepped out, which was all the time. When he nipped at our ankles someone inevitably let him out. As he aged, his rest periods got shorter and he would wobble up to the door and emit a low guttural squawk and Dad would shake his head and open the door. Guiltily, we watched him limp across the road, and once Mom looked so sad and turned away because there was nothing she could do to keep that cat from getting hurt. His trips lasted longer and longer. He returned one evening in early Spring and we all agreed not to let him out no matter how much he yelled because he needed to recover and maybe even see a vet although none of our animals ever did. We thought vets were only for dogs who complained about every little injury, unlike cats who hated to admit weakness.
Everyone in the house was restless, Dad was between jobs, and Mom took in more typing and never wanted to talk, just watched whatever was on TV and reread romance novels and women’s magazines. She made everything in her giant glass pan which we’d eat over the week. By the third casserole day, she’d cover everything with white sauce she made with flour and some kind of dry soup mix and milk. By mid-week we’d be presented with a plate covered in the white sauce, like a nuclear snow with indeterminate indeterminate bits of size and color underneath. By the end of the week, she’d stop and stare upward as we sat to eat, daring us to comment. One evening, Dad got an extra big portion, “For the man of the house,” she said, the closest she got to criticism. But it was enough for him to rise, put his jacket back on and exit so fast, he forgot his scarf. Maybe that’s how Brownie got out. Or maybe Wanda engineered keeping the door open for long enough that he grabbed his chance. It was early Spring and still freezing and by summer we realized we probably weren’t going to see Brownie again. At least he’s free, Wanda said, and I wasn’t sure I agreed.
“He doesn’t look like he had a lot of fun out there.”
When the fun stops, he comes home. He’s a smart cat, she said, ending the discussion.
When three kittens showed up on the porch. Mom and Yvette Roseborough had a falling out because Mom thought she had dumped them at our house so she didn’t have to deal with them. By the time Mom said, “What are we going to do with all those kittens?” we had brought them into the basement. We fed them bread drenched in milk, Cap’n Crunch and raw hot dogs, and somehow they survived. One became a gorgeous long-haired smokey girl. We called her Smaug, after the dragon in Lord of the Rings. Smaug got pregnant when she was small and then she disappeared, and somehow the other two kittens got lost and I never found out what happened to them and I don’t remember anyone looking very hard and I hold this against myself to this day, though I was very young when that happened. We were a careless family, never hanging onto anything, accepting whatever fate tossed our way.
Summers were short in Sept Isles. I have pictures of us at a picnic, eating sandwiches by the shore, at Indian Ocean, and we were all wearing thick hand-knit sweaters because summer lasted maybe three weeks and rarely got into the 70s. The happiest times were at the house on 679 Gamache street where Dad had a basement of TVs he would fix in between benders. By the time he got around to fixing them, people were angry, and Mom made us answer the phone and say, sorry he’s not home. The whole house had a feeling of being strangled. Mom was nervous and spoke in that wavery voice and we just wanted to stay out of their way. I wouldn’t even remember that we had a dog except that he was in the picnic picture, and then I remembered Tippy meeting us at the bus stop after school. Even in those days, Mom must have had the TV on all the time because Tippy when the music for Mr Rogers came on, he would whine and bark at the door until Mom let him out to meet us at the bus stop. Then they changed the program time from three o’clock to one and Tippy would wait in the rain or snow for hours and caught a bad cold, and frostbite on his back paw. We were powerless against the ebb and flow of the fates and just had to bear it and keep your mouth shut because all you could summon was trouble. Rebellion was pointless. By the time we moved to Bealieu street Mom was taking in shorthand and typing to make a few dollars, the way other women took in washing or mending. She started making big pans of fudge, eating it with the wooden spoon before putting it in a pan with waxed paper coming up the sides. She made lemon bread with an icing drizzle and sausage souffle which is a strange name for that heavy potato, stewed tomato and sausage casserole. I remember Boston bluefish, a solid rectangle of frozen fish she would shove into the oven after pouring milk over it. That was the worst, and we only ate it when we were really broke. The favorite was pork chops with a can of cream of mushroom soup poured over it and shoved into the oven at low heat because Mom believed that turning on high heat was a taunt to the gods and would summon disaster. She was terrified of fire. 
 
Ch 4 The Chicken Man
Whenever we asked when dinner would be ready, Mom would say, “I’m waiting for the potatoes,” which meant not for hours. Only later did I realize that potatoes take a half hour at most, but Mom was terrified of fire.
Across the street from our house in Sept Isles was an open field with tangles of brush and sometimes Mom gave us all baskets or plastic bowls.
 They want us gone so they can have sex, Wanda said, and that explained why they  were flirty, and it was kind of weird, nice in a creepy way. They would laugh and chuckle together for no reason at all. So we were mostly happy to go out and have blueberry picking contests, and I didn’t want to say anything to Andrew or Xtine because I didn’t want to ruin it for them, but most of all because I loved having secrets. We would eat more than we saved, and Andrew usually picked gooseberries for jam. Those wild blueberries were small and dark, so our baskets took ages to fill.
The fields were strangled with wild raspberry and gooseberry bushes where cat colonies hid. Seagulls and other aggressive birds dove at things all around us, and it was easy to spot the chipmunks, find skeletons of small animals and occasionally the flick of a skunk or fox’s tail as it dove for cover.
Summers, Mr Roseborough brought us speckled trout, and Mom said he probably bought them to prove he had actually gone on a fishing trip like he told his wife, Yvette. Wanda wanted me to ask where else he would go, but I didn’t want to.
“I thought you knew everything,” I said. And that made her mad enough to disappear for a whole week, and I felt bad about it.
Those dark berries turned a violet that didn’t exist anywhere else in the world when they bubbled and pooled around the pie vents as they baked. My favorite was her blueberry loaf with a thin lemony frosting that dripped down the sides. Then we’d play Parcheesi or Monopoly and on the good nights, Dad would join us. I loved winning more than anything, but Wanda said he let us win. I didn’t believe it, then I did. I wasn’t sure. And sometimes that ruined the game.
Every Saturday, the chicken man came to the door and mom would buy a chicken from him and as soon as he left she’d complain about how expensive it was. “Then don’t buy it,” Dad said, and that made her quiet at first.
“Oh Ted, I don’t want to make a scene. Why don’t you answer the door?”
He knocked again, and Mom said, “Shhh,” and Xtine whispered,“He knows we’re here. The car’s in the driveway.”
“Darn you kids,” she said, like it was our fault the chicken man was back.
“Tell him we’re broke,” Ted said, heading down to the basement to work on the TVs he fixed.
She made a mad face. It killed her to have anyone think we didn’t have any money. When he knocked again, I went upstairs and looked out their bedroom window over the front porch. There he was, leaning into the peephole; so close, his forehead touched the front door. I tiptoed down the stairs and whispered into Mom’s ear, “He’s still here,he’s looking inside the peephole.” I jumped when someone grabbed me from behind. Then I knew it was Wanda making fun of us, and I didn’t want to talk to her. Or explain. Mom said, “Darn it in a loud whisper,” then she straightened up and said “Someone’s at the door,” loud, so he would know to stop staring into our house.
“Oh, hi,” she said, as she opened the door, as if she had just heard him knock. “Nothing today, I’m afraid I didn’t have a chance to go to the bank.”
He stepped back, nodded gravely and said, “I trust you, Missus,” reached into his sack and pulled out a limp beheaded bird by its waxy yellow feet, and Mom said, “oh my,” and looked away. He dropped the naked bird into a plastic bag, pulled out a long snake of neck and showed it to her before dropping it in. Then he scooped out a handful of bloody gizzard, heart and liver, cupping it in his large palm for her to inspect. “No extra charge,” and Mom says, “Oh no, I couldn’t expect you to… “  He drops it into the bag, wipes his bloody palm on a hanky pulled from his jacket. “No worries missus,” he repeats - while he finishes wiping his hand on his pants.
“Pay me for two next week,” and smiles, like he just saved Andrew from getting hit by a car or something, and turns to go. And Mom holds the dripping bag of bird innards over the stoop and offers a weak wave with her free hand.
Those chicken dinners on Sunday were delicious, something we all looked forward to even after Mom stopped going to church. She was much happier after ridding herself of Father Battle, who told her she couldn’t leave her husband no matter how much he drank. Turned out she was his last parishioner before they sent him off to some secret Catholic rehab. We never knew what his problem was, but something was definitely in the air.
Around this time, strange men began coming to the house. They usually had hats they removed with one hand after Mom answered the door. They always carried something they called the big book, usually wrapped neatly in a plain paper bag wrapper.  
Dad and the men would gather in the kitchen, and Mom would usher us out to visit with her friend Yvette, who was married to Dad’s best friend, Bob. When Andrew asked who they were, he looked scared, and that’s probably why she actually answered. “He’s going to stop drinking,” she said, which she thought was great, but I preferred drunk dad who would sing and recite Omar Khyam and sway as he talked with a funny smile.
“It’s AA, but don’t tell anyone at school, and don’t tell your father you know.” She looked happy but nervous when she told us, bending over so we were all at eye-level and in on a happy family secret.
“We all have to vow,” I said, and Wanda sneered at me. She hated it when I did this.
But Wanda and me loved Yvette’s black and white kitchen, which hurt your eyes to look at and gave me a floaty, buzzy feeling that I loved. Yvette spoke in a sort of whisper, like life was one big, delicious secret with lots of eye rolls and conspiratorial nods and knowing smiles. She was tiny with thick black hair in loose short curls, and she liked wearing patent leather stacked heels with big buckles and what she called shift dresses with square necklines in bright colors that no one else in town ever wore.
“I have a surprise for you,” she said, and came at us with three bandannas. She told us to turn around and wrapped them around our forehead, covering our eyes. She made a big deal of tying them in the back, pulling my ears and giving me a playful scratch on the scalp after tying it.
“Now you all belong to me and I can do anything I want to you.” She made a fake Dracula laugh, and in her best Bela Lugosi voice she said, follow me, my pretties and my handsome prince to Andrew and reached for my hand.  She had no problem holding our hands something no one else in the family ever did, but Yvette was also quick with shoulder squeezes and kisses on cheeks as if it was the most natural thing in the world, so I didn’t mind that she reached for mine and Andrew’s and Xtine. 
“C’mon Betty, take the other side and we’ll squeeze through the door out back into the yard where I have a big surprise for you guys! But promise me - No peeking.”
“Okay,” I said, feeling shy about wanting the surprise.
 “Keep your eye on them Betty,” and Mom laughed, a rich timbre like she never did at home. So, I said, “I promise,” and Xtine and Andrew chimed in. 
 Then, “careful, raise your feet,” and we all trooped outside in the cool air.
“Okay. Stop. Stand still and don’t open your eyes until I say so.”
“O Yvette,” Mom said, “this must be expensive,” so I knew it was going to be a great surprise. Mom unknotted my kerchief and Wanda was right in front of me. Oh, what perfect little slaves you all are, she said, dripping sarcasm. And I felt ashamed for being excited and liking this game and tried to pretend I didn’t care. “One Two Three open your eyes.” And Andrew screamed, “Yay!”
“Do you like it? I got it for you… it’s a trampoline…I got the big one…you can all use it any time your mom says it’s okay. I like having kids around.”
Mom looked at her with something I couldn’t read. Was it pity? Did she not believe her? Adults were mostly easy to read, you could always tell what they were trying to get you to do, but Yvette’s smile was small, and she looked away quickly, which was’nt like her.
On a small round table, a big pitcher of lemonade and a plate of cookies and three chairs were set up like something from a magazine or maybe a TV show, and I could tell Wanda liked it even if she wouldn’t admit it.
“Your mom and I are off to the kitchen to solve the problems of the world and figure out what we should wear when we solve them.”
“Be good,” Mom said. “If you need anything, just ask.”
“Or holler,” Yvette yelled. When she winked, the sun caught little bits of glitter in her frosted pink lipstick. She smiled and shut the door behind her before the two of them settled into a long session of true confessions and gossip.
 By the time we returned home, the men were gone with Dad and a note sat near the Mr. Coffee maker. back from the meeting at 7  - Ted. 
Dad returned ashen-faced and the two of them were formal with each other, and we all were happy to get to bed early, exhausted from the trampoline. The next day he was short tempered and over the next couple of weeks we’d all scatter when he came out looking for his tin of fruit pastilles hard candy and ask who had gotten into it. “Can’t I have anything to myself,” he mutters. Or “You kids” and Mom would clean up the house and we were all quiet and she’d say, “Let’s all just have a nice dinner without the TV on,” and we were all relieved when he started drinking again.
No wonder he drinks Wanda said, which I didn’t think was funny. Then, well at least he gets to have fun.
“Doesn’t look like fun to me.”
It would if you were saddled with kids and a wife
 “You’re talking about me, you know. “
No, not really.
What do you mean?
I mean blink and it will change
“You mean, I’ll be grown up?”
Wanda took a minute, then said, yes, exactly.


Ch 5  Dennis Kovacs
My first unrequited love was with an Esquimo boy named Denis Kovacs. At least they told me he was Esquimo. Now they are called Inuit or First Nations people, but back then, meat- eater, or Esquimo. He was short with straight black hair and was a faster runner than me, and when he ran, he looked back and smiled like he wanted me to catch up, and that’s what ushered in the romance. I wanted something from him. I wanted to be faster than him. And I wanted him to know it. So, I waited for him to come down the street because he had to pass our house on the way to the boys school and once, I saw him turn back and look at our house and I thought he must like me too, so I hurried out like it was natural for me to be on my way to school even though Our Lady’s opened a half hour after the boy’s school. 
In my haste, I forgot to tie my shoelace, and tripped on the stairs and didn’t yell because I didn’t want mum to come out, but she heard me and said, “what are you doing leaving this early?” 
She stared at Denis Kovacs, who had stopped, mouth open like some cartoon drawing. My knee was skinned above my sock and Dennis was at the end of our short driveway and had a weird look on his face like he didn’t know what to do and when Mom saw him, she straightened up and he turned and ran like he was embarrassed. A warm flush washed over me, the pain gone. I sat on the stoop and watched him run. I tried to hide my smile and didn’t want to call him back, because now I knew for sure he liked me. Mom came over with peroxide and mercurochrome and a big band aid and I didn’t care, or if I did it was only for a minute.
After that, Dennis was mean to me and made fun of me. He’d wait for me after school and we’d walk back together and he’d say things to me like, “bet you flunked gym,” and always beat me in a race to Maple Street where he went the other way to his house. Then one day Wanda said, ask him to run backwards, so I did, and he said, “That’s really stupid.”
“That’s because you know I would beat you.”
And I began to run backwards. Wanda said, run really fast, I’ll tell you if you’re going to run into anything or if there’s a hill or something on the sidewalk. Trust me, and that’s how I got to be known as the fastest backward runner in the school. Dennis watched, and when I came back, he said, “that’s the stupidest thing I’ve ever seen anyone do.”
“Betcha can’t betcha can’t… bet you’re scared,” and I skipped away, backwards.
“And you talk to yourself,” and whirled his finger in a circle in the air near his ear like I was crazy.
“Better than talking to you,” I yelled, and he ran forward and slugged me in the shoulder, but not hard.
Keep running backward, Wanda said and I ran as fast as I could because she wasn’t kidding, she would tell me things like we're going uphill now or go on the outside of the sidewalk - there’s a bike coming.
 Dennis craned his neck to watch me swoop and dance around all this stuff and he couldn’t understand how I could see everything.
“You’re crazy,” he said, and I laughed in Yvette’s crazy Count Dracula voice and he ran up to me, “Sorry,” he said.
“Say it then,” I said. “Sorry for what?”
“for punching you.”
“Then run backward, if you’re really sorry,” and he started slowly then laughed like he was having fun and then we were running backwards down the street and up the hill but as soon as Wanda noticed we were laughing together she disappeared, and we both fell in a heap when a big rock was in our way and he tore his pants and my band aid came off and I was bleeding more but it was so funny that we plopped down, laughing in the middle of the sidewalk like it was the funniest thing ever and he looked at me like really looked at me with his dark eyes like they were all black velvet and stared right into whatever he was looking at like he could take everything in and swallow it all and I didn’t even notice that Wanda was gone until I saw her outline against the fence and it looked like she was crying,but she straightened up when she saw me looking.
“Come over,” I said but she just faded out and refused to come out until the next time Dennis Kovacs walked me to school.
 
6. Lost – I stayed out as long as I could because Dad quit drinking again and was always around, fixing things, expecting dinner and even lunch on the weekends  before disappearing into the forest of television sets he kept in the basement for his new TV Repair business.
You’d think he would let your mom have the TV on, I mean it’s not like he hates them.
Occasionally he’d turn it off in the middle of a program Mom was watching. I wanted her to fight back, so was riveted when I heard her mutter, “Darn you, Ted.” When she got up from the couch, I thought she was going to turn it back on, but instead she looked for her knitting and sat back down. 
Then he asked when dinner would be ready.
Mom was quieter, more subdued, almost afraid of him.
One of her specialties was raw hotdogs cut into iceberg lettuce and dressed in Miracle Whip and the world’s most tasteless tomatoes. Sometimes she added sliced onion. Those days, we’d disappear into the bedroom or the backyard and no one ever called us to the dinner table - they were glad to be rid of us. Around this time, the polite polite men in loose raincoats and old-fashioned homburg hats often knocked on the door after dinnertime, asking for Ted. They looked like characters out of an old spy movie. When she offered to have them wait inside with a cup of coffee, they never said yes, just disappeared back to the car in the driveway and we knew Dad would be gone for a few hours and we all relaxed until he returned. When we heard the car outside, Mom would turn the TV off and tell us to go to bed, even though it was only around 8:00. Dad was restless and disappeared into the basement and Mom would go to bed with a romance novel. By then he worked sporadically at the iron ore company and spent most of his days banging around in the basement, sometimes calling for Andrew to come help him. “My only son,” he’d say, when he was in a better mood, and this made Xtine and me mad, as if we didn’t count.
We were always being given coloring books and I knew it was a way to make us quiet, so I would color the figures with thick black zigzags until the outlines disappeared. We were sent out for blueberries, but this time they weren’t smiling and teasing each other. The house was tense and no fun at all. I was getting tired of the trolls but didn’t want them to know it so I sat them on the shelf, and put lots of things in front of them so I couldn’t see their sweet, smiley faces pleading for love and attention. Begging us to play with them. All I wanted to do was run outside and challenge Dennis Kovacs to races to the school, but I hadn’t seen him in weeks, and no one knew where he had gone. He was at the boys school and Andrew was no help, he was still in kindergarten so he couldn’t tell me anything. Xtine had a friend named Lorraine and I would tag along with them and try to talk to them even though they had the world’s most boring conversations. So, I would ask if they ever saw any movies or whatever I could think of with because when I looked at them, I never came up with anything interesting. It was like all my words tangled together, and nothing made any sense. Then Lorraine said she would give me a nickel if I would not talk all the way to school. All anyone wanted from me was silence. I never followed them to school after that, even though Xtine and me left the house together with our stupid cartoon lunch pails. I’d wait until we got to the next block and Mom slid from behind the curtains. I’d sit on a short cement flower box in the vacant house and they would just keep going without turning around to see me, not even once. Instead of turning in to the school, I kept walking toward the boy’s school, pretty sure I knew where it was but I must have missed the big street with the traffic light, so I circled back to where I thought the school street was and even though there was only one main street in Sept Isles called Main Street but I couldn’t find it. The streets narrowed with less houses and then came to an end with this huge field. Maybe it was a shortcut and if I walked through the field to the other side, I’d find the street again. When I looked around, I saw the rear legs of a fluffy caramel-colored rabbit, hop and kick his way into a thicket of brush, and I ran after him. Something swished by and I followed the sound.
Maybe Brownie is here, Wanda said. And I was so grateful to hear her voice, I said, “thank you for coming,” in this strange formal voice.
It was still warm out. I was only wearing a thin coat and no boots, and the sun was still high, and I thought that if our cat was lost in these woods, he would be 
cold and hungry because no matter how hot it was, Brownie always lay close to the heater or in a ray of sunshine spilling from a window in the house. He would’ve loved chasing that rabbit even though the rabbit would be scared. I just wanted to find my cat.  so I kept walking and spotted a huge rock in the middle of the woods with a huge Maple tree as tall as a weeping willow that sheltered it with shade.
Nothing moved, nothing sounded, not even birds. It was so empty I was happy to see a trail of ants moving up the rock, probably sensing food which reminded me that I was hungry. I had two half sandwiches; one was baloney and nothing else and the other half was peanut butter and apricot jam. The ants must have heard me open the bag because they all stopped midstream, then came toward me like a little army parade, determined not increasing their pace, moving forward so many joining them from all sides until the rock disappeared under their bodies, like a slow oozing river of tar, and then they stopped.
“What are you going to do now, ants?” I asked, worried they would jump up and fly at me because I had a horror of flying insects. But they just stopped and one of them must have ordered the others because they broke into two streams and circled me, more joining from the ground,up the sides of the boulder. I dropped a piece of the apricot bread because I didn’t like apricot anyhow and mom must’ve mixed my bag with my sisters and the ants circled it then I dropped another smaller piece and one at a time they made their way over, until there were enough to carry it off and the bread moved down the rock, a universe of ants under it and the next battalion stopped, poised to follow. A few lagged so far behind they must have gotten discouraged, and I wondered if they were ashamed or shunned by the others. Not many, maybe ten or twenty formed an orderly line and marched the other way. More joined them, the line thickened like a velvet marker. They reminded me of the way Wanda could change course in an instant and reconfigure everything like it was her plan all along. Like she could see into the future. I tore off another piece, tossed it in their direction and as they closed the circle, a new line of ants advanced in an arrow formation and the circle broke, ants reared up on their back legs and began to fight.
Look what you’ve done, Wanda said, you started a war. You interfered and started a war. I hated it when Wanda tried to sound all important like she knew everything and what it all meant.
You don’t believe me, she said, but I was too tired to even answer. We were lost in the middle of a field, and everyone would be mad at me no matter what I said.
“If you know everything, where’s Brownie?” I asked.
He’s gone
“Everyone knows that.”
 Before she answered, I thought about what she would say and said,
“Never mind.”
You don’t really want to know. Most people don’t, because they suspect things are even worse and they don’t want to have to think. They would rather do anything than actually have to think and maybe find out that they are wrong about everything.
She wasn’t showing off now, she was sad, like she was one of the things no one wanted to know about.
We stayed there for the afternoon, looking for strange berries, Brownie and searching for the rabbit. I had walked so far, I was exhausted, and the afternoon was warm, so I took off my jacket and scrunched it under my head, lay down behind the rock, and fell asleep. I awoke to a sharp chill in the air, and my leg was numb. It felt like maybe ten minutes, but couldn’t be, because the sun had started to dip and Wanda was gone. I couldn’t remember which side of the rock I saw when I entered, and it seemed to be the same shape from every angle when I walked around it. So, I thought I would just walk in any direction. How deep can the field be? I still had the baloney sandwich and thought I should eat only half, because I might be stuck here for a long time, and if Wanda was mad at me, I would be alone.
Farther in, I stopped at an upended picnic table that worried me. All around the bush was different - as if someone had made an attempt to settle there or maybe it used to be a park or a hobo camp that I had read about. A table looked so lonely in the middle of the field and then I spied an old sleeping bad but it was crusty with some sort of dried liquid which had stiffened and a weird old couch pillow. I thought it was good and bad at the same time. Good because there had to be a way out, and bad because people might be close by, which was also good and bad though I couldn’t tell which. By now afternoon recess would be over and there was nothing to do but eat the rest of the sandwich, so I did. Near the table was a tall maple tree - the only one in the bushy field, as if it had been granted a reprieve; and I knew why. Whoever let it survive had an eye for beauty because it was magnificent. The leaves were beginning to turn orange and red. Most maples turned yellow and brown in the Fall and I knew this because my mom always made a big deal of the few red maples in town, and the street the school was on was called Maple Street with trees whose leaves went lime then yellow with only a little orange, so this one stood out because it was a clear bright red, almost purple and I had never seen any color like that, like the tree drew itself then invented the brilliant red to color in the leaves.  
Two feet up the trunk, a sturdy branch stuck out horizontally. It seemed to invite me to climb up the center, beckoning, like the graceful step of a ladder. I wondered what it would be like to be a magnificent tree alone in a field of brush and was happy to provide what company I could, with my pack and my book and my gratitude for being sheltered.
Wind started to blow and the tree warm as I climbed maybe ten feel up the trunk aided by bisecting branches.  I was no longer bored as I hoisted myself up branches that twisted like a natural spiral staircase to the back of the trunk opening to a graceful tributary like the outstretched cup of a giants hand, or a lounge chair under a brilliant beach umbrella the color of the sun.  Everything smelled fresh from a cooling rain and a gentle breeze hushed against the thick shawl of leaves. I used my backpack for a pillow, turned on my side, and the leaves mattressed under me, branches cradling my copy of “The Diary of Ann Frank” with a ray of sun that perfectly illuminated the pages. I had read this before but wanted to study the passage when Peter ignored her and the kiss that she wanted and never got and again I thought he didn’t deserve her, but kept reading, hoping I somehow missed her finding out that he really, really loved her before they both had to die.
“Keep still,” Wanda said and I thought she was making fun of me for reading the book again, and wanted to tell her to mind her own business but in a playful way because that was the last thing I wanted and because I knew that I was her business and I wanted to say it out loud to let her know I meant it and how much I actually appreciated her because something about being lost in a field and being alone even with my book made me sentimental and more scared but I wouldn’t have put it that way at the time.
I said shhhhh.
I almost jumped because she was so close, sitting on my thighs.
Don’t move, and then I saw the three boys who had caught the rabbit and I was so angry that they caught my rabbit and I knew Wanda felt the same way.
Don’t move, she said and waited until they were directly under us and aimed a branch down and the one in front tripped on it and the second bumped into him and the rabbit got loose and bolted. He was confused and running in circles and let go this incredible scream and one of them looked up, but the bigger guy pushed him and the third hit him and somehow they fell and tumbled around, fighting, each accusing the other of being stupid.
“You lame ass retard. I told Alex not to hang out with you.”
“I caught that fucking rabbit.”
The shortest guy one at the bottom of the pile rolled away and stared up the tree and looked right at me, through the leaves then turned away as if he didn’t believe what he was seeing or maybe he just saw the leaves or Wanda’s red jacket. Maybe the sun was in his eye but then he lifted his head, sat up and looked again.
The other two were chasing the rabbit, and he called them.
“Hey,” he said, and they called him useless.
“You useless piece of shit,” and he just stopped, turned, and they seemed to  lose interest in the tree. And by then the rabbit was gone. 
When I whispered, “it’s gone,” to Wanda, so was she, and I was alone in the tree with my book and packsack as the three guys headed out, cutting behind the tree and I looked at the angle, drawing a straight line from the branch I was sitting in, on so I could follow them after enough time passed. But the sun was going down fast before it felt safe. Then I counted backward from one thousand but I thought I heard the big one’s voice telling someone to fuck off, loud enough to carry or maybe they were closer than I thought.


Ch 7 - Alone in the wood
Wanda was nowhere. I was alone in the field, which led into a forest with a weird picnic table in the middle. It was pretty beaten up, covered in mold and lichen and bleached gray with black slashes of dirt or mold. It sagged on one side. Then the boys returned, and they were frustrated so I was glad I hadn’t come down from the tree, though my foot had gone to sleep. The big one with the weird bangs cut straight across his face, upended the table and jumped up and down on the splintered top like he had to destroy something, if he couldn’t torture the rabbit. He tackled the thin, small boy and kicked him in the shoulder and the boy tried to laugh like they were in it together, but they weren’t. The kid looked terrified when the second boy spit at his face and slapped him, and I thought I should be a hero because two against one wasn’t right, but I just froze on the branch. I recited the prayer I was taught, making vows all over the place, promising to help with chores and read the Catechism, acting like I was in the confession box and the clouds were priests. I made lots of promises, but the thing is they changed from helping the boy to helping myself, and I knew I was never supposed to pray for myself unless it was to help someone else, and that told me how selfish I was. All the while, they took turns torturing the boy. They did wedgies and the Indian rub on his arm and the last thing they said was, “if you say anything…,” 
The kid tried to smile, nodded his head up and down and the two mean boys walked away, pretending they didn’t care if he was with them, but snuck glances behind them to make sure he was following. I couldn’t see the boy’s face, only his head which he raised anytime they turned to see him, but I saw theirs, and the big one looked mean and the other guy looked worried, like he was trying to be as mean as the one who looked like Crabby Appleton from the cartoon book mom read to us when she was in a good mood.  I stayed up the tree a little longer, even though I was sure they weren’t coming back. I thought about the beaten boy and wished Wanda would come back, but she didn’t, and all I could think was at least the rabbit was safe. I didn’t even want to see him. “Hide little rabbit. Hide.”  
By the time I climbed down it was dark, almost night, and everything had a bright outline like someone just snapped a flash camera in my eyes. The outline of the trees was and I didn’t want to have to walk through the forest at night so I thought maybe a moon would rise to help me find my way out. I couldn’t use the mark I made that led from the branch because it pointed in one direction, then I found another that pointed the other way. After making it inside, I scratched my face on brittle branches, got mad and kept going. Then it got denser still so I tried to return to the field and the red maple but hadn’t marked anything and I stumbled around for a while, got attacked by ants, and thought I heard a snake slither by but remembered Wanda saying it’s too cold, or if there are, they aren’t poisonous but anything might be living here. This was not like the forests in the encyclopedias, except maybe Hansel and Gretel. I was almost crying but refused, and when I skirted around a thick group of pines, I saw the field the rock and the tree was right there in front of me and I ran to it, climbed up and sat there all night, with nothing to eat and no light to read my book until I settled in my outstretched branch and the moon peeked through nightclouds from time to time, like a flashlight so I got to read maybe a half a page at a time until it disappeared. I probably slept for an hour or so, and longed for company, but Wanda never joined me and I thought that was mean of her but refused to cry,  because I thought if I started, I wouldn’t be able to stop. 
“When you come back I won’t talk to you,” I said out loud. “You’re mean.” When morning came, I decided to walk for a few minutes then double back to make sure I could find the field again. I did this a few times, then I heard something. A loud motor and thought someone was calling my name and getting closer. Was it me they were calling? I wasn’t sure but then I was and by then it was light and I was as scared of being found as I was of staying lost and skirted around the sound marking the general direction.  Somehow I found the opening, it was so close, I must have been less than a hundred feet from the pathway all night. I lowered my eyes to the clearly marked path flanked by overgrown bushes. Someone had once built a park here. I spotted a chain that led to a rusted swing set behind trees, behind it, a pile of mossy bricks that looked like a barbecue toppled over long ago and one massive metal garbage bin and then another close by. More picnic table remains made me so sad, like I had stumbled on some lost civilization.
When the sound of the searchers grew fainter, I thought of what I would do and how mad everyone would be to find me.
Wanda’s voice here
Wanda came over, but I wouldn’t talk to her. Nothing she said made me happy I wanted to turn each suggestion on its head and thought I would just go back to the tree but then she began singing in this sweet voice to the tune of My Favorite Things…
Italian sausage and Omelets with cheese
Bright red tomatoes and pot pie with peas
Chicken on skewers and steak bits with fries
Giant banana splits too beg for your eyes
With caramel topping
          and nuts and marshmallows
                      strawberry sauce and
 I opened my mouth to say stop and saliva spurted out. I was starving so I thought of the holocaust victims. What would Anne Frank do? Wanda asked, in her mocking voice because she knew I hid my copy of Anne Frank’s Diary, like it was a letter Anne wrote only to me, that I didn’t want to share with anyone..
“She would stop singing about food,” I said. “Or the starving people in India.”
Wanda said,  Not a single one of them would be stupid enough not to look for food. When I didn’t answer, she went on in her superior confident voice - don’t you think that’s actually worse?
I was so hungry just looking for an excuse to find something to eat and even Wanda couldn’t conjure up food, and I almost told her that.
I looked up to skies the color of dirty cement, felt a fatalistic despair, and followed the narrow pathway of packed dirt as it slanted, widening to a bisected roadway in a wonky shantytown. An Esquimo family walked alongside the roadway, the father putting his arm protectively around the small girl and speeding up when I emerged, so I didn’t ask where I was. Did Dennis Kovacs live here? Rows of squat lookalike houses with tin roofs and narrow front doors all seemed made of the same corrugated tin and tarpaper, most with one or two tiny squares of window. A few children were playing some sort of weird hopscotch, and I realized I had gone through the woods that separated our neighborhoods, but Sept Isles was so small, so it was really odd to feel this was far away. You were walking in circles, Wanda said.
“You mean we were walking in circles,” but she didn’t answer. “You let me walk in circles in the dark.”
It wasn’t scary, it was an adventure, and maybe we would find Brownie
For the first time, I wondered if she had let him out
I didn’t, she said
A girl around my age stared at me and screamed. A bigger boy, who might have been her brother, cstood in front of her and pointed at my head. “Miss, you have spiders …” in this excited voice.
I plucked at my hair, and a teeny spider fell onto my wrist, then more fell onto the sidewalk and scurried away. I batted at myself as it slipped into my sleeve and disappeared. I ripped my jacket off and ran, the group of kids swelling and trailing behind.  No go that way.
But I thought Wanda was teasing me, and I didn’t believe anyone, not even her, and a woman came out of a house, cutting me off. She wore a shiny blue robe that flapped open, her thin breasts bobbing in a man’s white undershirt. I looked away.
“Stop,” she yelled. “Where do you belong?” She looked like a younger mom.
Before I could stop myself, I said, 681 Gamache street because I had learned to recite my address and phone number. But this was my old address because my parents never bothered to teach us the new one. She sighed and nodded, like she knew where it was, and a man came out, and they argued, so I walked away, but she followed me, yelling back at him where he stood, having stopped following us. 
“You rather the cops come here?” she said “because someone’s gonna call them,” and that seemed to settle the argument.
“Come with me.” She grabbed my arm hard, then relaxed her grip. “Sorry,” she said. Then “wait here,” and pushed my hair from my forehead, stepped back to take me in, spit on her fingers and rubbed my face. Then she brushed things from my shoulders and my back, and Wanda said, that’s disgusting, you like it, and I was embarrassed, because it did feel nice, in a funny way.
Then Wanda said, she has nice eyes, in a low voice, and I could tell she was sad because I didn’t move away. I didn’t trust her anymore. She had been so mean to me when I needed her, and I was glad I made her sad. 
You like anyone who pays attention to you.
The woman had her arm around me, squeezed my shoulders and walked me back to the house with the dead flowers in the flowerbox, and said, “Wait here, maybe five minutes. Promise?” I nodded, and she returned a minute later wearing a flowery jacket. I followed her to a motorcycle. 
“Hang on tight, my girl,” she said, and we drove me for maybe five or ten minutes, and she dumped me at the Monsieur Couteau Centre D’achats. 
“Go in there and they’ll call your parents. Ok?” Then “You got a mom, right?” And I nodded, and when I jumped onto the sidewalk, I saw the street pole with a poster with my picture on it.
LOST CHILD it said, covering up a Missing Cat poster. The photo was from my first communion, and made Wanda laugh. No one will believe it’s you, she said, which made me laugh for a different reason. Because the woods had turned me into a different person. Wanda linked her arm in mine and just about pushed me into the hairdressers.
 
 
789
Quick thought - was the picture even her? Were other girls missing? Possible plot point if we like  - otherwise have to find out why the poster was up so soon - certainly it has to do with Mme LeBreton and Yvette.
 
HERE
 
Ch 8 - A Cut Above
“I think we’re in the right place,” I said looking at the sign on the door that read A Cut Above. A black-smocked hairdresser looked up from a woman with dark goop in sectioned-off hair. She raised the squeegee bottle and frowned at me when I entered the shop.
“What the dilly-o? Megs - come see this,” and this lady in a pink Mumu and beige sweater comes over and bends to look me in the eye. Her sweater had pearls sewn together in the shape of daisies, and the smell of bleach wafts toward me and makes my eyes water.
In a soft, phony voice, she says, “I’m sorry, honey,” and reaches for my hand. When I pull away, she squeezes my shoulder. Her eyes narrow. “What’s your name?” and, “where’s your mom?” and I like the way everyone is interested in me, but I keep my mouth shut. She ushers me from the doorway to a waiting area with chairs and a side table with a coffee pot, and a plate of fudge-e-o cookies and I grab two, and the woman says, “go ahead honey.” Then,“who are you?” Are you that lost girl? Oh, my lord jezus you are. Sit down honey.”
“The cops were just here with these,“ and she shows me the picture of myself at my first communion, then frowns, as if uncertain, as she holds it up next to my face. “You’re going to be all over town.”
The hairdresser turns from her customer, ‘I saw her first,” like I was some sort of prize. The lady getting her hair dyed looks annoyed. “Just call the cops. Oh, come on.”
I want to bolt but MuMu lady blocks the door, She clearly thinks there might be a reward, so she says, “it’ll just be a minute and she takes out the candy she was chewing with one hand, grabs the phone from the wall and wedges it between her ear and her shoulder while she looks around for something to put it in. She finds a wrapper, but the wrapper falls so she stuffs the candy into her other cheek and this makes her sound like a retard when she says. “We got the lost girl - I think,” and then she says, “ok I’ll keep her here,” so I sit down near the cookies.
The hairdresser is blocking the door and MuMu lady says, my name is Wanda, what’s yours and I laugh because it just sounds wrong to me. The receptionist says, “then you take her,” and Mumu Wanda gives her a look and the hairdresser says. “C’mon, let’s go to the back, we’ll wait there. Do you need to use the bathroom and would you like some water,” and she hands me the plate of cookies, so I follow. The walls have some weird black and silver checkerboard wallpaper with drink Coca Cola mirrors and red chairs, and they make me feel dizzy as the plate of cookies slips and crashes to the floor. So they bring me back to the reception area, if you can call it that.
“Sit,” the receptionist barks at me, then “Settle down, Jean,” to the woman at the wash basin getting the dye out of her hair, because she keeps bobbing up to eye me even with the water running. When she stands, I recognize her as the same Mrs. Murphy whose tv was destroyed by my dad when it tumbled out of the back of his pickup truck. He had stopped at the bar for a quick drink before delivering it, and probably forgot to close the tailgate. We all thought it was funny, except Mom, but telling the story of the fancy carved wood box tumbling down the hill was a favorite family punchline.
“You,” she said. “You’re that girl, Terrible Ted’s daughter, and I nod, “no I’m not.”
“Well, when they come in to get you, they can pay my bill,” and storms out of her chair, and the receptionist looks at me and says, “that cost 35 dollars - she had a permanent.” Mrs. Murphy glares at me while she rips off her smock like it’s all my fault and slams the door behind her as she exits into the cold with a towel around her head. The receptionist thinks this is hilarious and looks around for someone to tell. I can see how much she enjoys upsetting MuMu lady who is now looking at me resentfully when the cops bust through the door, like Wanda and me are bank robbers or outlaws. Wanda has this crooked smile like this is all really stupid, and this makes me less afraid, so when they ask me if I’m Me, I say yes. 
Mumu lady says someone owes her 35$ and we all look at her, and she asks if there’s a reward, and the cop just shakes his head because she’s given him what he most enjoys about his job - the opportunity to lecture.
“You know, little miss, the whole town was looking for you.” He looks out at the people gathered in the shop, then leans over to speak to me. “Your mom was so worried about you,” He messes with his walkie talkie, opens the door and we follow him outside. The static increases and everyone looks up and a few clerks from adjacent shops come out to see what’s happening and more people gather, the parking spaces in front of the salon fill up and a few more people gather at the front door, having given up the pretense of being only casually interested.
He stands with his legs parted in the upper part of the sidewalk, like it’s a stage, and the static from his walkie talkie grows louder when he pushes us away to be quiet, pulls up the antenna and speaks.
“Affirmative. We have her, and she’s safe,” like he rescued Wanda and me from the Bogey man or a wild bear. “Call the mother, her child has been rescued” He turns to the gathered crowd and says, “all in a day’s work. No problem at all,” talking into the phone, but making sure everyone can hear. “yes, yes, we’re going down to the station now… tell her we’ll meet her there…okay, then we’ll send a car round to pick her up.”
All I wanted to do was go to sleep, and I curled up in the back of the police car and closed my eyes. And the last thing I saw was Wanda, eyes bright, staring out the window, taking in the crowd of people, then the streets of the small town like she was seeing it all for the first time.
 
Ch. 9 - Jerry Herda - Hatman 
When I returned to class, the teachers were nice to me, especially Madame LeBreton who put her arm around me and walked me to my seat, pointing to the pile of missing posters on her desk as we passed. She seemed genuinely happy to see me and stopped me as I headed out to play at recess.  She gave me an angel sticker with hair just like mine and told me I won a spelling award. Don’t be too proud, but you are first in Catechism and I almost blurted out better than Deborah Ann Lund, but she stopped me as if she knew I was going to say that and saved me before I did. I loved those stickers with golden indents that showed the texture of hair and the rose blush on the cheeks of the fat little angels who looked like they had a secret you would never be able to get them to say. The Mary stories were my favorite and the burning fig tree and anything with gold coins. I was there in the hot sun, bare feet burning on the scorched desert sand and carrying heavy things with mean people everywhere who made fun of me. I imagined setting all the donkeys and camels free so we could all live together in a big cave, but mine had a tv and a radio and a fridge. Wanda didn’t care about any of it and always tried to get me to go play outside. Yuck, I’m not going into that big smelly cave, she said, taunting me, but I told her they were special animals and they always smelled like ice cream. She was only happy when I won races or beat Deborah Ann Lund at anything, especially spelling.
So that afternoon, I was inspecting my sticker which I had stuck between the pages of Illustrated Stories of the Bible, when someone knocked at the door. Mom had gone out for a short visit to Yvette after hanging laundry in the back yard before the sun went down and clothes and sheets would be stiff with cold. Dad was out, maybe at work or on a job, and this guy in a long thin raincoat stood there. It was freezing outside so I didn’t know why he was wearing it. I didn’t think he was one of the meeting people. He looked like the same guy who had come by a week before that mom talked to just before she began calling around looking for dad. She never did this with the AA people.
“Hi, he said. We never had anyone over except the paperboy to collect and the chicken man on Saturday. So this guy in a tidy gray raincoat and black hat shows up. He wore thin black gloves and thick glasses and it looked like he drew his eyebrows on. The cat stared at him from the couch then grabbed his chance and black sprang out the door in front of us. He wasn’t allowed out.
“I’m sorry kid.”
I tried to move past him. “He’s not allowed out. He might get lost,” but the guy just pushed his way in and shut the door behind him.
“She’ll be back,” he said. “Cats are smart, she knows who feeds her.”
“What’s your name, kid. “
I told him and he smiled. “That’s an interesting name for such a cute little girl,” he said. His smile showed bright white teeth that looked like dentures that didn’t fit right.
“Hey,” he said, I’m from Montreal myself, but I hadn’t told him anything.
“You father here?” he looked over my shoulder like he was about to walk past me into the house.
“No,” I hadn’t seen him for a few days. I thought he was on some contract job with the iron ore company, but he had had his own business for a while by then, so I wasn’t sure.
“How about your mom?”
“You know mom?” I asked, and immediately regretted it. I didn’t want to talk about her to this guy.
“Is she here?”
“She’ll be back soon. Like in a few minutes.”
 “You mean to tell me she left such a cute little girl all alone in this big house?” He put his briefcase down by his feet and whistled like he was making a joke. Again, he looked over my shoulder. “Maybe not such a big house,” and laughed, but it came out raspy, like blowing air out through his nose.
“Parents, these days. I mean… when I was your age I went everywhere with my parents. Even parties, you think I’m fooling? They stuck us kids in a bedroom and carried us home when we were still sleeping and I would always wake up safe and sound in my own bed. They wouldn’t let me out of their sight.” He nodded like he was remembering. “It’s different today. But you wouldn’t know anything about that.”
His raincoat had a belt like a girls raincoat and he had pointy toe cowboy boots that looked too big for his feet and matched his crocodile briefcase.
His hat covered his hair and cast shadows over his face and the painted on eyebrows gave him a surprised expression and skin like my mom’s. Like he never had to shave. He was almost totally covered so I couldn’t make out exactly what he looked like except that the belt was on the last notch so he was really thin. He had a wobbly loose walk, like he was in danger of walking right out of his boots, like he weighed nothing at all. 
“Maybe I’ll just wait for him right there.” He motioned toward the couch, and smiled like he and I were in on some sort of joke. Then looked at his boots and said, “Nah. Not on these clean floors, If you knew what they had just walked through, you might not have answered the door at all.”
But the floor wasn’t clean. It was covered in random things like towels and toys and had a bag of spilled cheezies that had gotten knocked to the floor last night.
He tried to chuckle, like he had made a joke. “I been wading through some tough terrain…you don’t wanna know -  and I wouldn’t want to bring it into your house. He lifted his foot up, to show me the sole, “see what I mean, kid,” but it looked clean to me. 
“Never mind. What’s important is this is my second visit here so be sure to tell your dad that Jerry Herda came to see him in person. I wouldn’t want anyone to think I’m the kind of person who ignores a mess. No, I’m the guy who cleans up the mess, and you can tell him that too.“
“Is that what you want me to tell him.”
He chuckled again, “Sure kid, I have a reputation to maintain. Let no one ever say that Jerry Herda was the kind of man who tolerated a mess. Hey, they could even put that on my gravestone, that’s how important it is to me.“
I nodded, but didn’t say anything because I didn’t have to. It’s like this guy was playing both sides of the conversation, so I waited, hoping Wanda heard what was going on and would tell me what to do.
C’mon Wanda where are you, I thought, looking around.
“You sure no one’s home?” he said. “You wouldn’t be lying to me kid, because there’s nothing worse than a lying brat except maybe someone who makes promises he don’t keep.”
I nodded my head.
“So, listen, give your father a message for me. Your father, not your mother. Ok?”
“Ok, just to dad.”
“This whole town is falling apart,“ he said. “Used to be a going concern. the Xerox company and all this land that everyone had these great plans for. All those hills with iron in them just sitting there, useless, hiding all those red veins of treasure dying to be busted open. Iron ore, you must have heard of it.”
He tilted his head. “You sure no one’s here but you?”
“Yah you are,” I said, which I knew was a mistake because he stopped smiling.
“So I am, kid. Just the two of us. But Lemme tell you something maybe your parents haven’t taught you. No one likes a smart mouth kid, especially a girl.”
“Yes sir.” I added, “I think dad’s at work,” hoping he would leave the house to find him.
“That’s what I thought too, but no one seems to know him at the job. But don’t worry. I’ll catch up to him. You remember my name kid?”
“Yes, I’ll tell him Mister Herda came to see him.”
Somehow we had gotten far enough down the hall that I could see into the living room.  Through the half parted curtains, I made out the blurred figures of Yvette Roseborough and mom looking at the big white car in the driveway. Then Yvette quickly turned and took off in the direction of her house. Mom met my eyes through the window and in seconds she was up the steps and in the house.
“Ah, the wife,” he said, and held out his hand, which mom took. I tried to leave but he said, “Stay here kid.” He moved in closer cupped my chin with his palm.
“We’ve been talking, her and me,” he said “Is she an only child?”
Mom blinked two or three times.
“Cat got your tongue?”
“Are you here to see Ted? Because he’s not here and I don’t know when he’s coming back.”
“You tell him Jerry Herda was here and tell him some people work hard to get nice things like TVs and you don’t want to misplace stuff that belongs to important people. Or any people for that matter, but especially important peoples TV’s. It’s not kosher.”
He leaned toward me. “You got a smart little girl here but she probably don’t know what that means.”
But I did know. It had something to do with Jewish food and I told him that, because nothing bothered me more than people thinking I was dumb.
“So you are a smart kid, just like your dad, but let’s hope you’re too smart to follow in his footsteps. Capish?”
“I’ll tell him,” she said in this watery voice, and pushed me behind her. “We don’t know when he’s coming back,” she said, her voice trailing off
“Say I believe you,” he said. ”But the way I see it, is it’s not that important. See, you’re a family and that means you’re all on the same team. You let him know I said that. And that this time I came alone. Mazel tov to the household,” he said, and touched the brim of his hat.
But he wasn’t alone, someone drove the car and there was another short thick guy in the front who jumped out and opened the back door for Jerry Herda to sit down. Through the window, all I could see was the gleam from the sun on the whitewall tires as they crawled out of the driveway and turned down the road like they had all the time in the world.
  
 Ch 10- Preparing to go
That night Mom told me to gather all my stuff from the closet especially my winter stuff and made me put it into plastic bags.
By the time I returned from school the living room was crowded in boxes and dad answered the door. Then he hugged me and made me eat vegetable soup and a cheese sandwich alone.
“Your mother and I are going into the bedroom to talk,” he said. “There’s nothing to worry about.” Then he actually hugged me and they closed the bedroom door and I heard her yelling which I had never heard before and it was scary.
Wanda sat with me at the table and said, “there’s something wrong.”  
Dad shooed me out of the kitchen so he could make calls without anyone hearing what he said. Later that evening, Bob Roseborough came over and from the top of the stairs I could hear the clicks of the huge tube tester and smell the soldering iron. Next morning Mom called the church to ask if anyone needed typing and returned a shopping bag and a box of paper. The two of them worked silently all day Saturday, Mom upstairs and Dad in the basement and I never heard them say a word to each other. That night dad went out again with three TVs on the backseat of the Buick because he had lost the pickup truck a few months before.
“I’ll be right home.”
“Promise ?”She asked.
“You worry too much.”
 Wanda said, you know he’s lying and that made me mad because he promised.
But he didn’t make a sacred vow, Wanda said making fun of the way I made everyone do it, like I was a priest who could order everyone to recite as many Hail Marys as I wanted.
I waited up until around midnight and finally fell asleep. When I got up, I tiptoed down the hall and peeked into their room. Mom was alone with the night light on reading a Harlequin Romance novel.
“That you?”
I stood still behind the door and she said, “Oh just come in,” and sat up.  The cover of her book had a girl with a shy smile in a long skirt in a field of lavender and this boy was watching her from behind a gate.  They both had sandy blond hair and pink smiles.
“C’mere,” she said, and squeezed my shoulders. “I want you to go back to bed and Monday I’m going to tell the school you’re not coming in. I want you to pack your most important things in some bags I’m going to get you. All your winter things and all your underwear and you can take only two stuffed animals that you love so long as they fit in the bags.”
“And all the trolls things.”
“Of course, sweetie. We would never leave LuLu and Mitzi behind.” Her smile faded when we heard the door open downstairs.
“My bride, my bride, where’s my bride?”
But Mom wasn’t smiling anymore.
“Quick, go to your room. Fast.” She turned off the light and rolled over on her side like she was fast asleep.
 
 
 
Ch 11 - Return to A Cut Above  - the afro 
The next day Mrs. Roseborough came over with the car and said, “We’re all going to the hairdresser. This is my treat to my favorite girls.” Mom looked like she was trying to be happy and she pushed me and Xtine along the driveway and didn’t take out the big heavy ashtray or even ask Yvette in for coffee.
Be good, girls, she said and bent down to kiss me and Xtine which felt weird because they never did things like that so all this fussing m,ade me nervous and I pushed her away and that made her look hurt but I didn’t know what to do about it even though I felt bad and I thought saying I’m sorry would just make it worse.
Xtine and me sat next to her in the front seat. I liked watching her drive, her hands with frosted nail polish on the steering wheel was a big thrill. I didn’t know any other women who drove .
Wanda came and sat facing me on the dashboard, blocking my view out the front window. When you grow up, we’ll have our own car and we’ll go wherever we want.
“Bet you don’t know where we’re going,” Mrs R says.
I bet she’s doing something nice for us, Wanda said.
I knew she admired Mrs R. and called her Yvette which was shocking at first.
Me and Yvette are like this she crosses two fingers together. She’s a lot like me.
Yvette turned on the radio and a shebop song came on then some Marvin Gaye and Yvette sang along “Lets get it on,” swiveling her shoulders and then making these small pelvic thrusts that were shocking and funny and Wanda copied her and then I did and she started giggling and said “Don’t tell your mother or she’ll kill me.”
Mom had said Yvette couldn’t have children and that was music to my ears, because she had time to made us stuff and gave me and Xtine friendship bracelets and when mine fell apart, she looked hurt that Xtine wore hers and asked me if I didn’t like mine and I didn’t want to tell her it  broke so I said I wanted a red one and for Christmas I got a red one and a red headband and then everything she got me was red, even a striped sweater she knit.
I was singing along to the song, mouthing words, the volume way up. Wanda was in the way so I hadn’t been watching the road but from the side window I watched her swoop up and over the hill, past the cow pastures and the empty fields with giant blocks of hay and the outskirts of a town and until we  screeched into a parking lot and I almost banged my head on Wanda when she screeched to a stop.
 With a big smile, she turned to us and said, “now young ladies, this is my treat. C’mon. She giggled excitedly and hopped out of the car, the big silver buckle of her black patent leather shoes shining in the light .
Oh no, Wanda said, pointing to the sign on the glass door. We were back at A Cut Above.
“ Only the best beauty salon in town,” then she whispered conspiratorially, “Only the only one, but shhh,” and winked at us.
Xtine giggled and I nodded no, but Wanda said, maybe they won’t recognize you but I didn’t believe her and it didn’t matter because now I was more curious than scared.
“Now, young ladies, I brought you here to watch and steal all my beauty secrets.”
MuMu lady was at the cash and she eyed me suspiciously. “You,” she said, her mouth open like Baby Huey or Foghorn Leghorn.  
“Yvette, do you know who got the reward, because she came in here and I was the one who called the cops.”
“Reward? Does this beautiful young lady girl look like a runaway? You should know better. Especially with the thousands of dollars you make on all of us. Don’t tell me you need a handout from the government to make ends meet? Why, I would never suspect that from you.”
MuMu woman looked a little surprised and I liked staring at Yvette, smiling in her frosty pink lipstick, showing her dreamy straight white teeth. She looked at the MuMu lady straight in the eyes as if she should be in on the same joke so we could all laugh together.
“Now let’s see, what would you suggest to make these girls even more fetching than they already are?”
And Wanda leaned against the door smiling and shaking her head like she approved of everything Yvette did and for once she had absolutely nothing to add. Even the receptionist beamed like she was happy and snuck glances at MuMu lady being put in her place. That was Yvette. 
“You must have a magazine for girls…young ladies to look through?”
MuMu lady looked around and said, “we don’t do children’s hair.”
“Okay well, then I suppose we’ll have to go to Bair Comeau - it’s far but it might be worth it.”
“You never said we would be doing children. If you had said…a”
“Excuse me, but I don’t see any children around. Do you?” She made a big deal of looking around the shop, then smiled the way you would if you were talking to an idiot. 
“Arlene you take her.”
An older woman looked up from plucking her chin and said, “alright,” pointed to me. “Sit here.”
I had never sat in a hairdressing chair before and I was thrilled to try it.  Arlene whirled me around and pumped some sort of lever to raise the chair until I faced a huge mirror. Seeing myself so close was shocking. Yvette came up from behind me and ran her fingers through my hair.
“You have been blessed with the finest, most silky-straight chestnut hair. If you look close you can see little fires racing through each and every strand, and” she turned to stare at Arlene, “we want to bring all that out, don’t we?”
We watched at each other in the huge mirror and I could tell she was posing. She straightened her shoulders and said, “there, that’s better. Now you try it. Sit straight.”
Wanda copied her, overdramatizing her movements, but not in a mean way and she was so keen, it made me laugh, because shadowing people was one of Wanda’s favorite things to do, especially if she got me to laugh at the wrong times and make other people angry. Pissing people off amused her and she claimed it relieved my stress but sometimes it added to it because they would be mad at me and not her because nobody thought she existed and I didn’t want to remind her of that and sometimes I got confused when I was younger, but I suspected that bad things would happen to both of us if they discovered her.
You can get away with everything when you’re a kid.
“Sit up like this,” Yvette was saying. “It makes you look regal. You know- regal, like a queen or a princess. Bearing is everything. Even the most homely girl creates a good impression when she carries herself well. And you are not homely so you already have one up. But even if you were….”
“Why?” I straightened up.
“People will see what you want them to see. When you think well of yourself it shows and then no one will try to fool you. Remember that.”
“Fool you about what?” Did she know about Wanda?
“You’d be surprised how bad some people are.”
Wanda issue unresolved
I thought about the boys who tried to catch the rabbit and I didn’t see how my so called bearing would have changed anything. But Yvette had already dropped the subject and turned to a page in a magazine.
“So, Arlene, what about this? I watched her flip the pages and finally stop at some figure skater.
“How about this Arlene, can you do this one, the wedge cut?”
But I had grabbed a movie magazine with a girl in wild red curls on the cover.
“I want this.”
“Oh no no no no no.  That’s so messy.  Your hair is nice and straight. I mean this it would be so cute on you. the wedge cut? What do you think?
“It’s ugly. I want this.” I held out the cover image with the woman in thick auburn curls cascading down her back.
“Well, that would be peachy if you could grow your hair out in ten minutes and it was naturally curly.”
“Mom said I could have a perm,” which was a lie. Even Wanda looked shocked, probably because she hadn’t suggested it. Then she smiled so I knew she was impressed with me.


 Ch 10 - Sometimes you gotta Act As If 
I thought of Deborah Ann Lund and her famous long pale curls and Wanda said she probably had a perm and I didn’t even know what it was but I knew I wanted one.  If I was going to have to sit in a chair forever with smelly women pulling my hair and making me look at them in the mirror, it had better be worth it.
“It might be cute, something different,” I heard Yvette say, but her voice was low, so I don’t think she wanted me to hear it.
They got into a huddle I heard ‘it’s too short,’ and then ‘ expensive,” then ‘bangs,’ and finally they came to some agreement and the three of them had the exact same smiles when they came at me like a block force.
Yvette said, “I’ll have to ask your mother.” She got halfway through dialing, looked at me, and put the receiver back in the cradle
“Your poor mom’s got enough on her mind… now you know your mother would do anything for you, so I want you to promise to do whatever she asks. Okay?”
There was something scary about this friend of moms doing extra nice things for me because I knew she was worried about mom knew things I didn’t. So I looked at her in the mirror and nodded my head with the grave expression I used for the confession box.
When I settled into the chair with a black cape pinned around my neck, I had second thoughts and Wanda sat on the counter facing me.
“Mom will be ok with a perm, right?” Shuddup, Wanda said. You’ll ruin it and Wanda was right.
“You talk to yourself a lot, don’t you,” Yvette said.
Just nod, from Wanda, so I did.
“Well, sweetie, she’s gonna have to be. The chemicals are already mixed and I gotta pay for them one way or the other, so all I can say is you better walk the way I told you. Remember, shoulders back like it’s the greatest hairstyle in the world, and who knows, it just might be. Sometimes you just gotta you’re your chances,” and returned her gaze to her own reflection in the mirror. 
When the timer on the hairdryer sounded, the three women in the salon, Yvette and two customers, lifted their heads from their magazines, conversations, coffee cups to stare at me. Arlette pulled the massive hairdryer back and felt around the tight curlers on my head, unfurling one of the plastic curlers and removing the paper, then replacing it and lowering the plastic helmet again. The room smelled like a rogue dentist’s office. I looked in the mirror hoping to catch a glimpse of Wanda, sometimes closing my eyes then opening them rapidly so she could surprise me. I wanted to know what she thought of the whole experience, but she gave me absolutely no sign. Then I saw her behind a shoulder in the mirror, and she made the same face I hated, like she felt sorry for me.
So I went back to the magazines and read the captions on the pictures of the women showing off their shiny hairdos and I was glad I didn’t let them do the skater’s hairdo. It looked like a Beatle’s cut, like a boy, and I wanted to look like Janis Joplin or Someone and I didn’t ask Wanda what she thought but I did want to know.
The timer buzzed a second time and when Arlette checked,  she made some sort of secret hairdresser sign and immediately shut off the dryer and squirted something over the curls.
Everyone was pretending not to look as they took out the curlers and five minutes later, “honey I’m warning you – you’re going to look like a movie star,” a smell like nail polish remover filled my nostrils and Arlette brought me over a facecloth with cold water. “Put this over your eyes,” she said and wheeled me to the sink and rinsed my head without taking out the curlers, which were tightening on my head. When they finally got them out, the place was silent ,and I had no idea what was up until I saw my hair coming out. It was everywhere, and MuMu lady herself was sweeping up, moving quicker that looked natural for her. They turned me away from the mirror, and I felt tight little curls over my entire head, like a sheep.
“Don’t you worry,” Yvette said. “It’ll relax in time,” but I caught her making a panic face to Arlette, which she tried to cover by smiling.
         “How much time?”
“Oh, don’t you worry... in no time at all.” All three hairdressers began fussing over me and when they finally allowed me to have a hand mirror, I realized I had gotten an afro and started playing with it, trying to get the spirals to stand straight up, grabbing the hairspray from Arlette to set it there.
“You like it?” Arlette sounded shocked.
“Of course she does, and why wouldn’t she. Its on the cutting edge, in face it’s a cut above just like the name,” and laughed nervously.
I looked so glam like the super hip guy in the mod squad, and they piled on some sort of cream to “relax the curl” but she had stopped calling me sweetie and seemed annoyed with Yvette and the next thing I knew I was in bobby pins and they were spraying me with aqua net and Yvette said, “I have to call Betty, she’ll wonder what took so long,” and disappeared to the Woolworth’s. She returned with four headbands stretched around a cardboard sheet, and Arlette didn’t even look at Yvette as she reached for it, pulled one off and forced it over my head.
I think I was the only one who liked it. I looked like someone else and would have given anything for Wanda to agree with me, but she didn’t appear even when Yvette paid the bill or drove me home. She had a quiet, private talk with mom who just looked defeated. Her only comment was,“do you like it,” and I refused to answer because she didn’t seem to understand what a big deal it was. The only thing she said was,“It’ll grow out.”
The next day I went to class wearing a blue headband. The edge of my scalp was burned and the curls were super frizzy, but I loved the way I could feel the air on my neck and how springy my curls felt until the girls at school made fun of me, calling me Brillo Pad. Everyone had straight hair, and I tried to hold on to the feeling of liking it, but so many people made fun of me and then the teacher came over and put her palms on it and said, “you look so different,” in this sympathetic voice and I wondered if the Mod Squad guy or Sister Girl had to go through that all the time. Then I wondered if maybe they were right and I just looked stupid, and by the end of the day, I just wanted to get home and watch TV and go outside to try and find Brownie again.
After school a truck was in the driveway and Mom said we would have to sleep on the couch that night and that we were were going to Nanny’s for the summer, even though it was only March. I was almost used to it. Last summer I stayed with my other aunt and it was awful. All she wanted to so was teach me how to set a table and which fork to use while Xtine and Andrew were at Uncle Douggie’s farm playing with the animals. It wasn’t fair, but we had never stayed at Nanny's and didn’t want to, but they didn’t ask.
The next morning, mom was up early and had a suitcase ready for me. It was Grampa’s brown one with the broken buckle. Only one closed. 
          “Yvette is coming to get you after school,” she said. “Xtine and Andrem are already on their way to Aunt Julie’s farm.”
“Don’t worry. We’ll all be together this summer when we get to Nanny’s in Sudbury, but for the next few days, you’ll stay at Yvettes. Be a good girl,” she said, and her face scared me. One side of her face looked like it didn’t move like the other side. This time I asked her what’s wrong, and her face hardened, and I was sorry I made her look like she was going to cry.
At school I felt like somebody new. Mme. LeBreton snuck two caramels in the hidden part of my desk. I didn’t even know she liked me although everyone at the school made fun of me for being teacher’s pet. But they were her real caramels - the ones she made herself with the special silver wrappers she kept in her office.
When school let out, Yvette was at the wheel of a small car I had never seen before. She leaned over to the passenger side, opened the door and said, “Come on in,” smiling in her new haircut, which had the kind of curls I wanted. They were wide and lazy looking like party ribbons on balloons. I must have been staring because she said,
“Do I look funny?”
“No.” I shook my head, I was embarrassed.
“I didn’t have time to put it up, I know I’m a mess.”
I said nothing because I didn’t know the right answer to this.
“We’re going to the Orange Julius,” she said, which thrilled me. We had been there twice before. Once when we went to the beach with Dad and once on Andrem’s birthday.
“I can’t be bothered to cook, I’m a free woman,” she said with a big smile like she wanted me to smile back. “but don’t tell your mother.”
“Am I going home after?” I asked.
“Let’s go eat and we’ll talk later.” 
So we headed out in this little blue car and I wanted to ask where her big Buick was, but there were too many questions swirling around so I just stayed quiet as the car hit a few bumps on the road, nothing like the smooth ride in the big car. She shifted gears manically like she was annoyed, but always made sure I knew it wasn’t because of me. She smiled right at me when she should have been minding the road and even took her hand off the gearshift to squeeze my shoulder twice, so I wondered if she felt sorry for me. We took a sharp turn onto the parking lot by the giant Orange that had begun to fade so you could see the huge staples holding it together. It was empty except for a motorcycle and a big white van with dark windows. A kid in roller skates came over with a board around her neck and asked us for our order, and I panicked because I didn’t know how to do that.
“Let me order for you,” she said. “I think I know what you like,” and I nodded, relieved that I didn’t have to say anything and look like an idiot.
We had all kinds of great stuff but I wasn’t hungry. We never ate until six o’clock and it was only four.
I drank the orange frothy drink and picked at the onion rings which I never tasted before but I couldn’t enjoy them because Yvette was staring at me in a way that made me angry and sad at the same time. And then I heard something breathing. It was Wanda and I was afraid to look at her because Yvette knew a lot of secrets and might know about Wanda too. She always looked at me like she was interested in everything about me and that never happened at home, and usually I liked it, but not today.
I had to figure out how I felt and why I wasn’t happy about this great trip to the Orange Julius.
I didn’t miss Xtine or Andrem, so it wasn’t because of that.
She’s buying your love, Wanda said which was ridiculous. She had everything, I thought.
Everything except children.
 
Ch 12 It’s Better to Lie
I never liked the house on Beaulieu street. It never felt like home so I wasn’t unhappy to leave it. I was happy to stay at Yvette's house and surprised at how clean the black and white kitchen was. Her husband was gone and she said he and Dad were off working somewhere and I missed Smaug the cat. When I asked Yvette if I could go back home, she said,“no sweetie,” and crouched down on her haunches so we were at eye level. At one time I liked it when she did that and searched my face-but, for what? I wasn’t sure but I didn’t like it anymore. I wanted to be alone in my room with my books and the cat and Wanda. Then I missed Perry so bad. He had died only two weeks earlier, and it felt like everything was just going away. Besides, this was way too much attention. All the ‘how do you feel,’ and ‘what do you think,’ all the time. So I finally said, “I think I want to go home,” and it came out like I was mad.
“Soon,” she said. So light, but I heard the iron behind it.
I didn’t ask what that meant  - In an hour? A week? What does that mean? Because, by then I realized adults were alike.They said anything to get you to obey.
Ask what happened to your dad, Wanda said, like she was happy I had second thoughts about Yvette.
“Who was the guy in the raincoat?” And even though she wasn’t there when he was in the house she knew exactly who I meant.
“He’s not a nice man,” she said, as if I hadn’t figured that out.
The next day Madame LeBreton motioned for me to see her outside the classroom and she also took my hands. It was like all the adults knew stuff, and all of it was bad.
She brought me to confession even though it wasn’t Friday and I saw Xtine leave, and when she came out, I could tell she’d been crying.
“I’m leaving for Aunt Julie’s tomorrow,” Xtine said. “Mom said I couldn’t tell you because you have a big mouth, so don’t tell anybody I told you.”
I nodded. Why was everything a secret? And this time when Yvette came to get me she was in another different car and this one was red. She told me we’d be staying in a hotel for two days.
“We’re here,” she said, and brought me to this place with jumping gyms and craft rooms and a group of much older kids and monitors from the high school.
“I’ll be back in two hours exactly,” and parked me in the library with a craft room where they were making giant flowers out of tissue paper.
I never got to finish my giant daisy with the black center and the tiny ladybug I stapled onto a leaf when she rushed in and told me to get in the car.  We were going to the hotel. When she parked, I tried to open the car door and she said, “Wait,” and checked the rear-view mirror, then looked all around, and I didn’t like the feeling I had when she told me to walk real fast to the elevator.  
In the room, she turned the TV on like Mom always did and went to the bathroom.  When she returned, she had a big shopping bag and pulled out something wrapped in tissue paper.
“Try this on first, then I have something else for you.” She had gotten me a tweedy red wool coat with a velvet collar and velvet pocket flaps and a big pleat in the back.
It felt good to stick my arms into the close-fitting sleeves, and when she buttoned it up,  I felt like I was someone important. It had weight but still felt swishy, and she made me go into the bathroom and stand up on the toilet seat so I could see myself in the mirror.
“Look at you,” she said, “You are the princess.” Then she brought out a pair of white gloves and a little hat with a red felt brim.
“For your eighth birthday. My way of apologizing for missing it last year.”
Even the buttons were covered in velvet. She was right. I loved that coat. 
“Now if you aren’t totally thrilled and think the present is more for your mom and me, I got you something else.” A package wrapped in silver paper with a card that said, ‘A Little Birdie Told Me.’ I opened it, and a bird popped out and wobbled back and forth and the lettering read ‘someone special has a birthday.’  I opened it carefully to show her I was an adult and not a stupid kid and I liked the etch-a-sketch she got me. When I saw her eager face, I knew it was important to gush and ooh and aww over it, but I was much happier about the coat, and I thought, “you’re not the only one who gets to pretend.” And Wanda thought that was funny and looked at me with admiration because Wanda liked nothing better than getting one over on an adult.
“You have to go to bed early, because the biggest surprise is tomorrow when you get to do something that some people don’t do in an entire lifetime and here you are only 8 years old.”
“What am I doing tomorrow?” I had a sick, swirling feeling, like I was being fooled in a very bad way this time. I wanted her to stop.
“You get to take a plane.”
I felt so dizzy and was afraid to ask where I was going, and she looked at my face and said ,“Oh Honey, they really should have told you. Tomorrow you get to be back with your brother and sister and your mom. Tomorrow you will have even more family because you will meet your cousins and aunt and uncle at your Nanny and Grampa’s in Sudbury.” When I said nothing, she spoke faster. 
“Your mom will be at the airport to pick you up. She misses you so bad, honey. I just spoke to her on the phone. And the only person who’s going to be sad is me, but no worries. I’m so happy for you.. you get to start over and have a happy, happy life. And get outta this dump.” 
She looked manically happy the next morning and gave me a new suitcase in pink which was a color I hated (I couldn’t find one in red, sweetie) and I saw the small red car and asked, “what happened to the big car?”
 “As soon as you leave, honey, Believe you, me, I will be happy to have it back,” like it was my fault she couldn’t drive it.  
It was still dark when we got to the parking garage and spotted the little red car. Again, she looked around, scanning the dark garage like we were playing hide and seek. “Stay here,” she said and ran to the car and drove around to get me. But she had forgotten to unlock my door, and it wouldn’t open, and she leaned over to my side and fumbled around and by the time she got the button up she looked so scared, I wanted to cry.
“It’s not your fault.”
“What’s not my fault?”
“All this. It’s your father. I shouldn’t be telling you this, but he owes people money and he's going to sort all that out.”
No he’s not, Wanda said.
I was so upset I repeated what Wanda said. “You are a liar. You are a big fat liar like everyone else.”
She stopped speaking and we drove in silence and when I saw the small airport in the distance, she slowed the car and said, “Yes I am a liar you're right. Your dad is in trouble with loansharks.”
I knew that, Wanda said, so I repeated it.
“That’s why I don’t want anyone to see you. There are bad people in the world.”
“Like you,” I said,  and I saw a tear in the light with the sun rising and I didn’t want to say that, but she was the only person I could get even with, so I didn’t take it back. I just wanted someone to feel as sad as I was even if was just for a minute.
But she reverted. “Hey, you’re going to be okay now, and that’s not a lie,” she said, forcing a smile. “It’s not that I want you to go, I just know you have to, and I’m going to miss you.” 
And I knew that was true, so when she asked if there was anything she could do for me, I only remembered when I got on the plane.
I should’ve told her to find Brownie. I should've told her I loved her too. 
I just wanted her to go already and get it over with so I could get used to it and not have to be sad anymore.
She nodded to the lady at the counter, and when I saw myself in the mirror, I thought I looked like someone else. Even though Deborah Ann Lund would have loved this coat, I missed my pea jacket with the big buttons like long wolve’s teeth that took a long time to get into the loops. The red coat felt tight and hot and I started unbuttoning it to take it off  but Yvette had said - “wait till you’re on the plane,” and that was the first thing I did then I ran up and down the aisle until the stewardess told me to sit down and belted me in. I couldn’t see anything out the window, just gray and they gave me a sandwich and a coke which we never had at home and I must have fallen asleep and when I woke up the coat was strangling me and took it off because it was really hot in the plane.


Ch 13 - The Poppies
Then there was a big bump, and we were speeding down the runway, and I looked out the window and everything was covered in snow all around us.  When we stopped and got out mom was there, crying and looking happy at the same time and we took a taxi a long long way and everything was even flatter than Sept Isles and the first person I saw was wearing a gray snowsuit walking by himself. He looked exactly like the picture of the man walking on the moon that Dad had in the basement, with big flat boots like bedroom socks with saucers on the soles.
“Are we on the moon?” I asked, and Mom laughed like the air went out of her, and she said “yes, sometimes I think we are, sweetie.” So I knew we weren’t and that we were happy to see each other again.
Meeting Nanny
When Nanny met us at the door, she stared at me up and down. She wore a thin apron and these black tie up shoes with stockings rolled to her knees that showed when she bent over. Her hair was twisted in a bun and it was totally black, the same color as moms and she had bright beady blue eyes. “Hallo,” she said and pinched both my cheeks, hard, and mom looked nervous and took my hand and we headed to the room upstairs and down a very short hallway. The door only opened halfway because of all the beds. Two were pushed together to make room for the third bed. “You and Xtine sleep there, and Andrem is in the single.”
I must’ve looked up at her because she quickly said. “It’s only for the summer and we’re lucky to have it so I don’t want any trouble from you two.” She meant Xtine and me because if Andrem said anything you just had to give him a truck and he was quiet.
Nanny yelled something in Hungarian from the bottom of the stairs so we went to the kitchen. A huge potato and piece of sausage sat in a bowl Nanny ladled broth then a giant silver spoon of bow tie noodles she called noodleez. The tablecloth had shiny pictures of sunflowers and roosters and when I was almost done, she asked again “Noodleeez?”  I nodded yes, and she stuck the big metal spoon into a pot and emptied it into my bowl and it was the most delicious soup I had ever tasted. I ate fast and she laughed and gave me another one and she sat across from me while I ate and when she smiled I noticed her large perfect teeth and all of them were real.
 Nanny’s house was scary clean.  She was always banging around the kitchen or moving furniture to wax floors, sighing like she had to do everything herself. We tiptoed around the house afraid to attract attention or slip on the dangerously slick surfaces. Even the counters glowed with a sinister dazzle.
She had stacks of aprons with tiny flowers that she made herself and, in the evenings, she crocheted a thin ball of string into flowers and trims she tacked to any available surface. They hung from the bottoms of kitchen cabinets, the edges of lampshades and pillowcases and decorated the inside of her china cabinet. Miles and miles of ecru flowers delicate as spider breath. Once when she unlocked the dining room to wash the walls, I caught a glimpse of her enormous dark wood table topped with a fine lace tablecloth like a layer of patterned dust. Evenings she sat with the delicate hook, periodically looking up to broadcast her annoyance with us, her wrist bobbing back and forth until she fell asleep in her giant blue armchair.
The rest of the time she was cooking up something odd in a giant pot that simmered for hours.  All the signs are here, Wanda said. How many 75-year-old grannies have all their own teeth. No gray hair either.  It was common knowledge in the neighborhood that Nanny was a witch and I wondered if Wanda had spread that rumor, or did she know something we didn’t.
Grampa was mostly in the basement making homemade cherry brandy or out with buddies from his days at the nickel mines in Sudbury. We lived at the end of a cul-de-sac and had no friends in this ageing neighborhood. We were just there for the summer until Dad got a job in Montreal and called for us or Mom left him “for good this time” she said.
We arrived in Spring and the three of us shared a bedroom; Xtine and I on twin beds pushed together and Andrew on the far side of the room.
My favorite job was tending Nanny’s vegetable garden because it got me out of the house and away from this childless neighborhood of suspicious old women and aimless wandering men in loose t-shirts and overalls.
When I arrived at the vegetable plot, Wanda was lying in the middle of a row of cabbages, staring up at the sky.
That cabbage is bigger than my head, Wanda said, pointing to the enormous purple cabbage next to her. She twisted it out of the straw mulch. It took effort for her to toss it to me and it landed in the dirt.  I was worried because nanny knew exactly how ripe each vegetable was and probably planned to pick it within the next few days.
Fine, she said, disgusted by my fear. Then, I’ve had it. Her color dulled and her voice trailed off.
She had been fading in and out lately and I knew she wasn’t happy here, but neither was I, nor wasn’t that the point of us being together? But pleading and begging her to stay got me exactly nowhere. Wanda left when Wanda left.
The outline of her red jacket cut against the trees and I made out the low hills beyond to nanny’s forbidden flower garden. We were told not to go there, and I assumed it was because she didn’t want anyone to pick the flowers, so I thought I could tempt Wanda to stay if I headed there, because I would’ve risked almost anything to be with her.  Mom said Nanny’s family were known for the enormous flowers they grew in a plot outside Budapest, somewhere on Lake Balaton. When Nanny was a girl, they sent her out in ragged clothes to sell flowers in restaurants, lover’s parks and outdoor markets after they lost everything in the war. She claimed she had saved the seeds and brought with her on the trains and boat over and planted them here.
“In Sudbury?” I asked.
“Don’t say it,” mom said, but I couldn’t help repeating the poem she had made the mistake of reciting to me before we moved.


Only God can make a tree
He’d never try in Sudbury
 
          We’ll go tomorrow, Wanda said, her color full and rich against the sky.
That evening when the moon rose, Wanda called me. From our upstairs bedroom window, I thought I could make out the tops of black hollyhocks, foxgloves and monkshood. But that seemed impossible. They’d have to be over ten feet tall.
“Tomorrow is floor day.” That meant Grampa had to leave early so Nanny could wax the floors.”
I nodded, “perfect.”
The next morning, Wanda was gone but I wasn’t worried. She likes me to look for her to see how much I want her company. So I waited until no one was around. Nanny had gathered all the equipment to wax the floors. “Stay out," she said and held three fingers out.
“Okay, three hours,” and when she grunted approval, I skipped out to the garden. If anyone asked, I’d tell them I was tending the vegetables and watering plants.
Through the back of the vegetable garden and the curtain of wild oak and weeping willow, I spied a flag of scarlet waving in the distance, sun piercing through a color I now know as Hungarian red. The color of the opium poppy. Then I noticed it everywhere in her house along with the ashen blue of the seeds she baked in her poppyseed rolls. Her kitchen was full of branches, sprigs, drying flowers and leaves, but the oddest were papery pods in a red earthen bowl on the counter. Seeds hid inside the pod, and when it split, you could see them nestled inside a soft line of velvet like antlers on a young buck.
When I arrived at the flower garden, the red disappeared as if a mirage.
This second garden was planted in an off-limits area, marked toxic and shut down by the city.  It was the old dumping ground where they had poured slag from the nickel mines. Nanny had mulched it for years, then saturated it with the chicken blood and manure from her illegal coop.
From the center of the garden, we looked through the tall stalks like Moroccan women hidden behind an arabesque of green, observing the outside world without participating. Then we saw her, a spec of nanny, in a yellow floral apron moving toward us with a long-handled hoe and thin machete. 
Start weeding, Wanda said. Quick, make a pile before she gets here.
I had to pretend I wandered here by chance and only wanted to help, so I did what Wanda said like it was the most natural thing in the world. Maybe she would think I forgot it was forbidden to be here. 
But the garden was so well tended we hardly found any weeds, and then she was upon us.
Speak to her like she knows what we’re saying.
That was when I realized she only pretended not to understand English.
The garden was much larger than I had imagined. It was English style with rambling roses, blue delphiniums, sunflowers, and all manner of flowering bushes. Nanny moved through the center and motioned to us.
“Come,” she said, and we passed behind two massive yews into a short-overgrown pathway that led to an old boarded-up warehouse or garage with a massive ‘caution’ sign partly hidden by dark trees. The path was constructed of random planks with an occasional nail sticking up, then a  solid wall of black trees with X’s spray painted on the trunks as if slated to be destroyed. A pile of old tires further obscured the opening into a natural depression that housed the shocking fluorescent red of the unnaturally tall poppies. Red that hurt your eyes after the bland surrounding darkness.Shh, Nanny said, raising her pointer finger to her mouth. Then she stopped and stared directly at me with her signature smile of confirmed suspicion. Enormous petals hung in the sky, pale veined and fragile. Fallen petals littered the forest floor. She plucked a small, curved knife from her apron pocket and pointed it toward a seven-foot poppy stalk, then down to a footstool partly hidden in the bush. I dragged the folded footstool out and stared up at a poppy pod identical in size and shape to Wanda’s head.
Nanny raised the knife and made a vertical slashing motion that left traces in the air then handed it to me. “Shhh,” she said again, loud.
 Wanda nodded. Like this, climbed up beside me on the footstool, held my wrist with both hands and aimed the blade into the pod.
 Three slashes… don’t cut it off the stalk…shallow cuts only… one clean slash at a time. Go!
I tried to cut into the pod, but it was surprisingly thick and rubbery and very resistant.
Shallow, Wanda repeated. This time the blade went through and with the most delicate touch, Wanda, breathless, guided my hand slowly to create a vertical cut the length of the pod.  We three watched a thin milky bead push through, weep on the line of the cut, then recede as if shy.
Nanny pointed to the sky and moved her hand down to her wristwatch, and I understood we were to return after sundown. Then she stared past my shoulder in open admiration and gratitude. Was she nodding at Wanda? Did she have her own secret friend? 
By evening, muck from the poppy pod had thickened, and within a couple of days it took on a brownish cast.
We repeated this over the rest of the summer, gathering the brown muck, and often I found Wanda sitting in the middle of the poppy field, blending in perfectly in her thin red sweater, her legs and face dusted with white.
That summer, Mom found a secretarial job and came home sweaty and exhausted, with this haunted look that drove me into the back room even if that meant speaking to Xtine when I got there. I would usually read for a while, and longer if I liked the book, but there were only Anne of Green Gables, Trixie Beldon or Hardy Boy mysteries or some other lame books around that summer. Often, when Mom left the room, Nanny handed me a milky drink with a sly smile, but I hated milk, so the first time this happened, I said or motioned No, and she pushed it at me. It tasted like glue, and I wondered if she was trying to poison me.
          “Medicine,” she said and gestured for me to down it, so I did and felt an immediate, unpleasant flush and then it was too late, but Mom was still in the bathroom, so I vomited all over the kitchen floor and Nanny let out a crazy laughter, so I knew she wasn’t mad at me. She led me into her chair and the room went spinny. After the weekend she handed me another drink, this time smaller, and I motioned, no, but something about the way she thrusted it at me made me wonder if I was sick with some incurable disease no one wanted to tell me about. So, I drank it, slower and when I was done, again, she motioned me to sit in her coveted blue armchair, and I felt woozy, not a bit hungry, but annoyed with everything around me. Wanda perched on the doily-covered arm of the chair and patted my back. Don’t worry. Everything is going to be fine.